Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/deployment/local-distribution.md

# Local distribution {#openvino_docs_deploy_local_distribution}

> The local distribution implies that each C or C++ application/installer will have its own copies of OpenVINO Runtime binaries. However, OpenVINO has a scalable plugin-based architecture which implies that some components can be loaded in runtime only if they are really needed. Because of that it is important to understand which minimal set of libraries is really needed to deploy the application and this guide helps to achieve this goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a local distribution, each C or C++ application/installer will have its own copies of OpenVINO Runtime binaries. However, OpenVINO has a scalable plugin-based architecture, which means that some components can be loaded in runtime only when they are really needed. Therefore, it is important to understand which minimal set of libraries is really needed to deploy the application. This guide helps you to achieve that goal.
```

> > **NOTE**: The steps below are operation system independent and refer to a library file name without any prefixes (like `lib` on Unix systems) or suffixes (like `.dll` on Windows OS). Do not put `.lib` files on Windows OS to the distribution, because such files are needed only on a linker stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### C++ or C language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: The steps below are operating system independent and refer to a library file name without any prefixes (like `lib` on Unix systems) or suffixes (like `.dll` on Windows OS). Do not put `.lib` files on Windows OS to the distribution, because such files are needed only on a linker stage.

### C++ or C language
```

Independently on language used to write the application, `openvino` must always be put to the final distribution since is a core library which orshectrates with all the inference and frontend plugins.

> For example, if your application is written with C language, then you need to put `openvino_c` additionally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application is written with C language, you need to put the `openvino_c` library additionally.
```

> The `plugins.xml` file with information about inference devices must also be taken as support file for `openvino`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `plugins.xml` file with information about inference devices must also be taken as a support file for `openvino`.
```

> **NOTE**: In Intel Distribution of OpenVINO, `openvino` depends on TBB libraries which are used by OpenVINO Runtime to optimally saturate the devices with computations, so it must be put to the distribution package.

### Pluggable components

> The picture below presents dependnecies between the OpenVINO Runtime core and pluggable libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The picture below presents dependencies between the OpenVINO Runtime core and pluggable libraries:
```

![deployment_full]

> #### Compute devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compute Devices
```

For each inference device, OpenVINO Runtime has its own plugin library:
- The `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` for [Intel CPU devices](../supported_plugins/CPU.md).

> - The `openvino_intel_gpu_plugin` for [Intel GPU devices](../supported_plugins/GPU.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_intel_gpu_plugin` for [Intel GPU devices](../supported_plugins/GPU.md).
```

- The `openvino_intel_gna_plugin` for [Intel GNA devices](../supported_plugins/GNA.md).

> - The `openvino_intel_myriad_plugin` for [Intel MYRIAD devices](../supported_plugins/MYRIAD.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_intel_myriad_plugin` for [Intel MYRIAD devices](../supported_plugins/MYRIAD.md).
```

#### Execution capabilities

> The `HETERO`, `MULTI`, `BATCH` and `AUTO` execution capabilities can also be used explicitly or implicitly by the application. Use the following recommendation scheme to decide whether to put the appropriate libraries to the distribution package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HETERO`, `MULTI`, `BATCH` and `AUTO` execution capabilities can also be used explicitly or implicitly by the application. Use the following recommended scheme to decide whether to put the appropriate libraries to the distribution package:
```

> - If [AUTO](../auto_device_selection.md) is used explicitly in the application or `ov::Core::compile_model` is used without specifying a device, put the `openvino_auto_plugin` to the distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If [AUTO](../auto_device_selection.md) is used explicitly in the application or `ov::Core::compile_model` is used without specifying a device, put `openvino_auto_plugin` to the distribution.
```

 > **NOTE**: Auto device selection relies on [inference device plugins](../supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md). If are not sure what inference devices are available on target machine, put all inference plugin libraries to the distribution. If the `ov::device::priorities` is used for `AUTO` to specify a limited device list, grab the corresponding device plugins only.

- If [MULTI](../multi_device.md) is used explicitly, put the `openvino_auto_plugin` to the distribution.

> - If [HETERO](../hetero_execution.md) is either used explicitly or `ov::hint::performance_mode` is used with GPU, put the `openvino_hetero_plugin` to the distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If [HETERO](../hetero_execution.md) is either used explicitly or `ov::hint::performance_mode` is used with GPU, put `openvino_hetero_plugin` to the distribution.
```

> - If [BATCH](../automatic_batching.md) is either used explicitly or `ov::hint::performance_mode` is used with GPU, put the `openvino_batch_plugin` to the distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If [BATCH](../automatic_batching.md) is either used explicitly or `ov::hint::performance_mode` is used with GPU, put `openvino_batch_plugin` to the distribution.
```

#### Reading models

OpenVINO Runtime uses frontend libraries dynamically to read models in different formats:
- The `openvino_ir_frontend` is used to read OpenVINO IR.

> - The `openvino_onnx_frontend` is used to read ONNX file format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_onnx_frontend` is used to read ONNX file format.
```

> - The `openvino_paddle_frontend` is used to read Paddle file format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_paddle_frontend` is used to read Paddle file format.
```

Depending on what types of model file format are used in the application in `ov::Core::read_model`, look up for the appropriate libraries.

> > **NOTE**: The recommended way to optimize the size of final distribution package is to convert models to OpenVINO IR by using [Model Optimizer](../../MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md). In this case you don't have to keep ONNX, Paddle and other frontend libraries in the distribution package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: To optimize the size of final distribution package, you are recommended to convert models to OpenVINO IR by using [Model Optimizer](../../MO_DG/Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide.md). This way you don't have to keep ONNX, PaddlePaddle, and other frontend libraries in the distribution package.
```

> #### (Legacy) Preprocessing via G-API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### (Legacy) Preprocessing via G-API
```

> ### Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

> **CPU + IR in C-written application**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**CPU + OpenVINO IR in C application**
```

> C-written application performs inference on CPU and reads models stored as OpenVINO IR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a C-written application that performs inference on CPU and reads models stored as OpenVINO IR:
```

- The `openvino_c` library is a main dependency of the application. It links against this library.

> - The `openvino` is used as a private dependency for `openvino` and is also used in the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `openvino` library is used as a private dependency for `openvino_c` and is also used in the deployment.
```

> - The `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` is used for inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` is used for inference.
```

> - The `openvino_ir_frontend` is used to read source model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_ir_frontend` is used to read source model.
```

> **MULTI execution on GPU and MYRIAD in tput mode**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**MULTI execution on GPU and MYRIAD in `tput` mode**
```

> C++ written application performs inference [simultaneously on GPU and MYRIAD devices](../multi_device.md) with `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` property and reads models stored in ONNX file format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, a C++ application performs inference [simultaneously on GPU and MYRIAD devices](../multi_device.md) with the `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT` property set and reads models stored in ONNX format:
```

- The `openvino` library is a main dependency of the application. It links against this library.
- The `openvino_intel_gpu_plugin` and `openvino_intel_myriad_plugin` are used for inference.
- The `openvino_auto_plugin` is used for `MULTI` multi-device execution.

> - The `openvino_auto_batch_plugin` can be also put to the distribution to improve saturation of [Intel GPU](../supported_plugins/GPU.md) device. If there is no such plugin, [automatic batching](../automatic_batching.md) is turned off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_auto_batch_plugin` can be also put to the distribution to improve the saturation of [Intel® GPU](../supported_plugins/GPU.md) device. If there is no such plugin, [Automatic Batching](../automatic_batching.md) is turned off.
```

- The `openvino_onnx_frontend` is used to read source model.

**Auto device selection between HDDL and CPU**

> C++ written application performs inference with [automatic device selection](../auto_device_selection.md) with device list limited to HDDL and CPU. Model is [created by using C++ code](../model_representation.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, a C++ application performs inference with the [Automatic Device Selection](../auto_device_selection.md) mode, limiting device list to HDDL and CPU, and the model was [created by using C++ code](../model_representation.md).
```

- The `openvino` library is a main dependency of the application. It links against this library.
- The `openvino_auto_plugin` is used to enable automatic device selection feature.

> - The `openvino_intel_hddl_plugin` and `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` are used for inference. The `AUTO` selects between CPU and HDDL devices according to their physical existance on deployed machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openvino_intel_hddl_plugin` and `openvino_intel_cpu_plugin` are used for inference. AUTO selects between CPU and HDDL devices according to their physical existence on the deployed machine.
```
